>> Kadi Kraman: So, now that we're using
a development build and not Expo Go,
it is definitely time to customize
the splash screen and your app icon.
So previously, if anyone's ever done
this manually, it is a long and
cumbersome process of generating the right
size images for iOS and Android.
And then copying them into the right
folders, and then kind of hoping for
the best.
But luckily for us,
our native projects are ephemeral because
we're using prebuilt, they are throwaway.
There's no need to configure the updated
assets in Xcode or Android Studio,
we just configure them in our app JSON,
and we regenerate our projects.
So, the easiest way to generate
your own app icon as fresh screen,
I usually use a design tool like Figma.
And we actually have this Figma
template as well that we can use that
has the correct sizes that you need to
generate, so it's a nice starting point.
And you can also, what you can do
is if you go the Assets folder and
look at these default
assets that are configured.
And you can look at the sizes here and
that's basically the size of assets
that you need to ideally generate.
So, let's start with the splash screen,
so a splash screen is a PNG and
it is the full screen page that will
be displayed when you upload first
launches and while the app content
is still natively loading.
So, I've created one for
us which is here, so let's download it.
>> Kadi Kraman: And in our assets,
we'll delete the existing one and
paste this in and in our app JSON, so
this is where the splash image is used.
So, we can pass in any file here,
we're gonna reuse the file name, but
this is where the Image is passed in.
You can also set the resize mode, and
you can also if you use transparency,
you can use a background color here.
Next up we want the iOS app icon,
so this is a 2024,
this is a square 1024 PNG, and
no transparency is allowed and
definitely don't have squared corners.
I've had that from designers before,
because all the IOS app
icons have squared corners.
So previously, I've had a couple
of times where I get designs
of app icons with squared corners,
so no squared corners are necessary.
And here's one I made earlier,
so let's download this.
>> Kadi Kraman: And here's our icon and
we can replace this icon.
>> Kadi Kraman: With the new one.
>> Kadi Kraman: And in our app.json,
this is where the icon is used.
And finally for Android,
we also need a 1024 by 1024 PNG,
but it is expected to have either
a transparency or a solid background.
So, just so it would look good on
the various Android launcher home screens.
So, for this one you actually,
if I copy this,
you will notice that it's got a lot
more padding than the iOS one,
so let's delete the adapt icon.
>> Kadi Kraman: I guess, so this is
the Android one, this is the iOS one.
And I'm giving it the transparent
background and I've also made it much
smaller because on a lot of the Android
devices this ends up being like
a circle or a square, so you need
a little bit more space on the sides.
And also if you go to the Appj.son,
where it's passed in,
so we're passing it in as
the foreground image and
we're giving it a background color.
So, by default this is white, so
I'm pretty happy with that, so
I'll just keep it as white.
>> Kadi Kraman: And finally,
because we have been supporting web we
can also add our little web favicon.
And I've forgotten to add a link to it,
but I'm pretty sure we can figure it out
so it's in assets, favicon,
teeny tiny plant, let's download it.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, get our favicon,
delete this file and
place the new one, lovely.
>> Kadi Kraman: And finally, while we're
at it, let's also update the app name.
So, by default, the app name is the same
as our folder name, which is in lowercase,
but I think app names look better
with a capitalized first letter.
So, in our app.json, on the app name,
let's call this Plantly with a capital P.
So, this is another thing that needs a
NativeAppRefresh in order to take effect.
So, now that we've done all our changes,
we need to regenerate our native projects.
And I wanted to show you,
just to demonstrate,
all the things that we
don't need to add manually.
So, let's,
>> Kadi Kraman: So,
just before I do prebuild, so
this id what I'm a purpose is, so
you don't need to follow along with a bit.
So, I'm going to remove these from
git ignore, so you keep yours.
And I'm gonna stage, all these changes, so
then can see all the files that
change when we do a pre-build.
So, NPX Expo pre-built platform Android,
oops actually, there's another thing.
So, because we already have
an Android directory, we want to
do a pre-build with dash, dash clean,
so it is better to do this than RMF.
The Android directory because it doesn't
generate things that don't need to be
generated.
So, if you need to change something,
you need to do prebuild and
you already had an Android
folder do dash dash clean.
So, it will tell me working,
yes, I want to continue.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so
let's look at SourceTree, so
these are all the changes
to my native project.
How happy are you that we
didn't do these manually?
So, we've changed the app name, and
then these are all the different
sizes if you see it, so
we've got hdpi, mdpi,
xhdpi of the splash screen.
Different size of the foreground
image the lawn chair etc.
So, all of these there are tools to
generate these for you, but it is so
nice to just do it with a single command.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's do the same for iOS.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, every time you do a
pre-build with iOS, it installs CocoaPods,
so that's why the iOS
pre-build always takes longer.
Actually, so
because we changed the app name,
it actually changes this
target here to a capital.
And the app name is changed here, and
these are all these like dynamically
generated files and we have here.
So okay, so this is where I pycon was
actually added, so I've bike on and
splash screen and they're actually
configured into the project.
So, all the files need to
be linked natively for
them to be available later projects.
So, these are all the things
that we do need to
worry about it because we generated
this which is pretty handy.
Now that I'm done with it,
I will add these back into gitignore.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
these are all the changes we had.
>> Kadi Kraman: So, now let's actually
rebuild, so npx expo run android.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
I'm gonna do npx expo run iOS as well.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, I think
the Android build already finished, so
now, if I go to my Android Simulator,
there we go, we have a little app icon,
it's so cute.
There you go, and then if I open this,
we should get our splash screen,
which is lovely, and
also the app name is now Planky.
And notice that I made the app icon for
Android much smaller.
And even so, like, it just about
fits in this little circle, so
it was definitely worth doing.
It's kind of a trial and
error when you're building these,
the first iteration of it was quite
hilarious, the plant was like.
[LAUGH] Straight in there.
All right, so it's finished on our
iOS build as well, so you can notice
that our app name has changed, our app
icon has changed, and the splash screen.
If the splash screen doesn't update
straight away, then it's a caching issue,
so if you close your simulator,
reopen it, it will work.
But we can see it, so
do you have a question?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, I'm getting late to my
brain might be tired, but I'm trying to
distinguish between the difference between
prebuild and just the regular build.
The prebuild is so
you can run it locally, so
you can test the build before it goes or?
>> Kadi Kraman: The Prebuild generates
the iOS and Android directories,
it is a prerequisite of the native build.
Because you can't do a native build
if you don't have your native code.
>> Speaker 1: Thank you.
>> Kadi Kraman: No worries, yeah, we left
the hardest thing to the end of the day.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, another thing
that I wanted to just quickly show you,
now that we have our
beautiful splash screen.
The trick to doing things like
getting auth from storage or
doing things before you let user in
the app is actually this splash screen.
So, in our layout file,
and I can even do this,
I think I can do this in
a nested layout file as well.
We can, let's do it in root one,
we can do SplashScreen, so
this is part of 'expo-routers',
so it's exported from here,
and we can do
SplashScreen.preventAutoHide.
>> Kadi Kraman: I think I've just gone for
an Estonian keyboard.
>> Kadi Kraman: preventAutoHide, so now
if I open this so the app is ready to go,
but our splash screen isn't disappearing.
And that's because we are manually
preventing this from auto hiding.
And then what you can do is remember
we have this onboarding state here,
so I mentioned before that you could
use the same kind of mechanism
to do auth in your app.
So, what you would actually do is you
could have an async operation here.
So, you could asynchronously
get something from storage and
check the validity of token or
whatever you want.
And then when you're ready,
redirect the user
to wherever you decided
they need to go and
only then hide your splash screen, so
it will be SplashScreen.hideAsync(), okay?
So, only when you're ready you hide it,
so that way you can do some navigation or
whatever you want, before actually
showing the users you don't get this like
loading state or navigating state
that you don't wanna show them.